# 07 - Directory Structure

The default Laravel application structure is intended to provide a great starting point for both large and small applications. But you are free to organize your application however you like. Laravel imposes almost no restrictions on where any given class is located - as long as Composer can autoload the class.

## The Root Directory

### The App Directory

The `app` directory contains the core code of your application.

### The Bootstrap Directory

The `bootstrap` directory contains the `app.php` file which bootstraps the framework. This directory also houses a `cache` directory which contains framework generated files for performance optimization such as the route and services cache files. You should not typically need to modify any files within this directory.

### The Config Directory

The `config` directory, as the name implies, contains all of your application's configuration files.

### The Database Directory

The `database` directory contains your database migrations, model factories, and seeds.

### The Public Directory

The `public` directory contains the `index.php` file, which is the entry point for all requests entering your application and configures autoloading. This directory also houses your assets such as images, JavaScript, and CSS.

### The Resources Directory

The `resources` directory contains your _views_ as well as your raw, un-compiled assets such as CSS or JavaScript.

### The Routes Directory

The `routes` directory contains all of the route definitions for your application. By default, several route files are included with Laravel: `web.php`, `api.php`, `console.php`, and `channels.php`.

The `web.php` file contains routes that the `RouteServiceProvider` places in the `web` middleware group, which provides session state, CSRF protection, and cookie encryption. If your application does not offer a stateless, RESTful API then all your routes will most likely be defined in the `web.php` file.

The `api.php` file contains routes that the `RouteServiceProvider` places in the `api` middleware group. These routes are intended to be stateless, so requests entering the application through these routes are intended to be authenticated _via tokens_ and will not have access to session state.

The `console.php` file is where you may define all of your closure based console commands. Each closure is bound to a command instance allowing a simple approach to interacting with each command's IO methods. Even though this file does not define HTTP routes, it defines console based entry points (routes) into your application.

The `channels.php` file is where you may register all of the _event broadcasting_ channels that your application supports.

### The Storage Directory

The `storage` directory contains your logs, compiled Blade templates, file based sessions, file caches, and other files generated by the framework. This directory is segregated into `app`, `framework`, and `logs` directories. The `app` directory may be used to store any files generated by your application. The `framework` directory is used to store framework generated files and caches. Finally, the `logs` directory contains your application's log files.

The `storage/app/public` directory may be used to store user-generated files, such as profile avatars, that should be publicly accessible. You should create a symbolic link at `public/storage` which points to this directory. You may create the link using the `php artisan storage:link` Artisan command.

### The Tests Directory

The `tests` directory contains your automated tests.

### The Vendor Directory

The `vendor` directory contains your **Composer** dependencies.

## The App Directory

The majority of your application is housed in the `app` directory. By default, this directory is namespaced under `App` and is autoloaded by Composer using the _PSR-4 autoloading standard_.

### The Console Directory

The `Console` directory contains all of the custom Artisan commands for your application. These commands may be generated using the `make:command` command. This directory also houses your console kernel, which is where your custom Artisan commands are registered and your _scheduled tasks_ are defined.

### The Exceptions Directory

The `Exceptions` directory contains your application's exception handler and is also a good place to place any exceptions thrown by your application. If you would like to customize how your exceptions are logged or rendered, you should modify the `Handler` class in this directory.

### The Http Directory

The `Http` directory contains your controllers, middleware, and form requests. Almost all of the logic to handle requests entering your application will be placed in this directory.

### The Models Directory

The `Models` directory contains all of your _Eloquent model classes_. The Eloquent ORM included with Laravel provides a beautiful, simple ActiveRecord implementation for working with your database.

### The Providers Directory

The `Providers` directory contains all of the _service providers_ for your application. Service providers bootstrap your application by binding services in the service container, registering events, or performing any other tasks to prepare your application for incoming requests.

### The Broadcasting Directory

The `Broadcasting` directory contains all of the broadcast channel classes for your application. These classes are generated using the `make:channel` command. This directory does not exist by default, but will be created for you when you create your first channel.

### The Events Directory

This directory does not exist by default, but will be created for you by the `event:generate` and `make:event` Artisan commands. The `Events` directory houses _event classes_. Events may be used to alert other parts of your application that a given action has occurred, providing a great deal of flexibility and decoupling.

### The Jobs Directory

This directory does not exist by default, but will be created for you if you execute the `make:job` Artisan command. The `Jobs` directory houses the _queueable jobs_ for your application.

### The Listeners Directory

This directory does not exist by default, but will be created for you if you execute the `event:generate` or `make:listener` Artisan commands. The `Listeners` directory contains the classes that handle your _events_.

### The Mail Directory

This directory does not exist by default, but will be created for you if you execute the `make:mail` Artisan command. The `Mail` directory contains all of your _classes that represent emails_ sent by your application.

### The Notifications Directory

This directory does not exist by default, but will be created for you if you execute the `make:notification` Artisan command. The `Notifications` directory contains all of the "transactional" _notifications_ that are sent by your application, such as simple notifications about events that happen within your application.

### The Policies Directory

This directory does not exist by default, but will be created for you if you execute the `make:policy` Artisan command. The `Policies` directory contains the _authorization policy classes_ for your application.

### The Rules Directory

This directory does not exist by default, but will be created for you if you execute the `make:rule` Artisan command. The `Rules` directory contains the custom validation rule objects for your application.
